README.md, before:

# RHEL-10-Performance-Tuning
This project aims to improve the performance of RHEL 10 using image mode an bootable containers

Hardware used for this project includes Raspberry Pi 4 Model B (8GB) and the UP Squared 7100 Edge (8GB). Both of these allow me to have tested 64 bit ARM and Intel 64 bit CPUs, and container files with directions on how to build and use them will be included at a later point in time.

NOTE: These directions are a work in progress and are subject change as the project develops further.

## Building a Bootable Image
I provide Containerfiles here that you can use, but if you would like to use a different version of RHEL 10 bootc please obtain the correct tags and architecture from https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/rhel10/rhel-bootc/6707d29f27f63a06f7873ee2?container-tabs=gti and edit the Containerfile as needed.
Please do keep in mind, you will also need to login into registry.redhat.io inorder to pull this images, but because I am installing and removing packages from the container, you will also need to login using the subscription manager with the command `sudo subscription-manager register`.

Now, ensure you're in the directory of your Containerfile and build the image using:
`podman build -t name-of-container:desired-tag .`

If the build was successful, you should see the name and tag listed when you type the command `podman images`.
NOTE: `sudo podman images` and `podman images` may display different images, so remain consistent if you build with or without sudo.

Now, create a new directory called output and follow the directions in this article but use the image you just made.
NOTE: Create a raw image, we will use it in the next step.

Now, for bare metal installtions, you need to copy over the .raw image to an external storage device. First, locate the name of the storage using the `lsblk` command, and it will usually be called sdX, with the X being some sort of letter. Once you know for sure what the name of your external storage is called, run the command `sudo dd if=disk.raw of=/dev/sdX bs=4M status=progress conv=fsync`. Note that this will overwrite anything that was previously on the storage device.

This should create a version of RHEL 10 you can boot into and can be updated with image mode. Updates can now be delivered via image mode.


## Updating via Image Mode
TODO: Add these steps in.

Commit message:

Modify README and add base Containerfiles
- Base Contaerfiles help with testing purposes at the start. Should not be touched
- README formatting was updated and added more instructions for multi arch builds

README.md, after:

# RHEL-10-Performance-Tuning
This project aims to improve the performance of RHEL 10 using image mode and bootable containers to perform updates.

Hardware used for this project includes Raspberry Pi 4 Model B (8GB) and the UP Squared 7100 Edge (8GB). Both of these allow me to have tested 64 bit ARM and Intel 64 bit CPUs.

**NOTE: These directions are a work in progress and are subject change as the project develops further.**

## Building a Bootable Image (Same Architecture)
I provide Containerfiles here that you can use, but if you would like to use a different version of RHEL 10 bootc please obtain the correct tags and architecture from the [Red Hat Registry](https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/rhel10/rhel-bootc/6707d29f27f63a06f7873ee2?container-tabs=overview) and edit the Containerfile as needed. Please do keep in mind, you will also need to login into registry.redhat.io inorder to pull this images, but because I am installing and removing packages from the container, you will also need to login using the subscription manager with the command `sudo subscription-manager register`.

Now, you can build your container using the follow command:
`podman build -f <Containerfile-Name> -t <Name-of-Container>:<Desired-Tag> <Directory-to-Containerfile>`
> NOTE: If you're in the same directory as you're container file you can just include `.` as the directory.

If the build was successful, you should see the name and tag listed when you type the command `podman images`.
> NOTE: `sudo podman images` and `podman images` may display different images, so remain consistent if you build with or without sudo.

Now, create a new directory called output and follow the directions in this [Red Hat article](https://developers.redhat.com/learning/learn:rhel:build-and-run-bootable-container-image-image-mode-rhel-and-podman-desktop/resource/resources:access-red-hat-container-registry) but use the image you just made in place of what they're using.
> NOTE: There are many types of images you can make, but for this project we will be using .raw images. 

Now, for bare metal installations, you need to copy over the .raw image to an external storage device. First, locate the name of the storage using the `lsblk` command, and it will usually be called sdX, with the X being a letter. Once you know for sure what the name of your external storage is called, run the command `sudo dd if=disk.raw of=/dev/sdX bs=4M status=progress conv=fsync`. **This will overwrite anything that was previously on the storage device. Please ensure that everything you want from the drive is off the drive before running this command.**

Now, if you plug this storage device into a bare metal machine, it should boot into RHEL 10 without issues. For the Raspberry PI, there is are some extra hoops involved in getting RHEL 10 to run on it. You can find more information about what you will need on the [RPi4 Github Page](https://github.com/pftf/RPi4).
> TODO: Add a section about how to get it working on the RPi4.

## Building a Bootable Image (Different Architecture)
This is generally going to be the same process as above, however there is one key difference in that you need an extra argument when building the image in order to specify what architecture you're using, since by default podman will use whatever architecture is on your machine. The new command you should use is:
`podman build --arch <Desired-Architecture> -f <Containerfile-Name> -t <Name-of-Container>:<Desired-Tag> <Directory-to-Containerfile>`

Under desired architecture, the options you would have for RHEL 10 bootc images are amd64, arm64, ppc64Ie, and s390x. It's important to note that you may need to install extra dependencies on your machine before this build is successful, however that depends on what you already have installed.

## Updating via Image Mode
TODO: Add these steps in.
